Convert the Trusted Clusters guide to a tutorial (and edit for different scopes) (#10708)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/setup/admin/trustedclusters.mdx

h1: Trusted Clusters
---

The design of Trusted Clusters allows Teleport users to connect to compute
infrastructure located behind firewalls without any open TCP ports. The
real-world usage examples of this capability include:

- Managed service providers (MSP) remotely managing the infrastructure of their clients.
- Device manufacturers remotely maintaining computing appliances deployed on premises.
- Large cloud software vendors managing multiple data centers using a common proxy.

Here is an example of an MSP using Trusted Clusters to obtain access to client clusters:
![MSP Example](../../../img/trusted-clusters/TrustedClusters-MSP.svg)

This guide will explain how to:

- Add and remove Trusted Clusters using CLI commands.
- Enable/disable trust between clusters.
- Establish permissions mapping between clusters using Teleport roles.

<Details title="Teleport Node Tunneling" scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} scopeOnly opened>

>  If you have a large number of devices on different networks, such as managed

Reviewer: I'm not sure the criteria for using tunneling is "a large number of devices."

Technically, node tunneling consumes **more** resources than direct dial, so your cluster would better handle a large number of devices if you did not use tunneling.

I would recommend we reword this so that networking is the main driver for tunneling. 
Something like:

If your nodes are deployed behind a firewall or otherwise not reachable by the Teleport Proxy Service, you can connect your nodes via Teleport Node Tunneling. Instead of connection to the Auth Service directly, ...

 IoT devices, you can configure your Teleport Nodes to connect to your cluster
 via Teleport Node Tunneling. Instead of connecting to the Auth Service
 directly, a Node connects to the Proxy Service, and the Auth Service creates a
 reverse tunnel to the Node.

 Learn more in [Adding Nodes to the Cluster](./adding-nodes.mdx).

</Details>

## How Trusted Clusters work

Teleport can partition compute infrastructure into multiple clusters. A cluster

> is a group of Teleport SSH Nodes connected to the cluster's Auth Service, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is a group of Teleport resources connected to the cluster's Auth Service, which
```

Not sure of term (resources, agents, etc), but let's be clear that a cluster is more than SSH nodes and an Auth Service.

$ tsh clusters
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">

```code
# Log in using the root "root" cluster credentials:
$ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh

# SSH into some host inside the "root" cluster:
$ tsh ssh host

# SSH into the host located in another cluster called "leaf"
# The connection is established through root.example.com:
$ tsh ssh --cluster=leaf host

# See what other clusters are available
$ tsh clusters
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once a connection has been established, it's easy to switch from the root cluster.
![Teleport Cluster Page](../../../img/trusted-clusters/teleport-trusted-cluster.png)

Let's take a look at how a connection is established between the "root" cluster
and the "leaf" cluster:

![Tunnels](../../../img/tunnel.svg)

> This setup works as follows. The "leaf" creates an outbound reverse SSH tunnel

Reviewer 2: Per https://english.stackexchange.com/a/394875 , I think you still need a colon after "as follows".

</Admonition>

## Join Tokens

Let's start with a diagram of how a connection between two clusters is established:

![Tunnels](../../../img/trusted-clusters/TrustedClusters-Simple.svg)

The first step in establishing a secure tunnel between two clusters is for the
*leaf* cluster "leaf" to connect to the *root* cluster "root". When this happens
for *the first time*, clusters know nothing about each other, thus a shared
secret needs to exist for "root" to accept the connection from "leaf".

This shared secret is called a "join token". 

Before following these instructions, you should make sure that you can connect
to Teleport.

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">

There are two ways to create join tokens: to statically define them in a
configuration file or to create them on the fly using the `tctl` tool.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Important"
>

  It's important to note that join tokens are only used to establish a
  connection for the first time. Clusters will exchange certificates and
  won't use tokens to re-establish their connection afterward.

</Admonition>

### Static join tokens

> To create a static join token, update the configuration file on "root" cluster

Reviewer 2: Should say on **the** "root" cluster.

Reviewer 2: Although I'm not sure static join token section is applicable to cloud (yet), as customers cannot edit cloud's teleport.yaml , right?

Author: I've aded a `Tabs` component with the `scope` property set around this H3 and the "Dynamic Join Tokens" H3, so these sections only appear if the reader has selected "OpenSource" or "Enterprise" in the dropdown menu.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Important"
>

  It's important to note that join tokens are only used to establish a
  connection for the first time. Clusters will exchange certificates and
  won't use tokens to re-establish their connection afterward.

</Admonition>

To create a token using the CLI tool, execute these commands on your development
machine:

```code
# Generates a Trusted Cluster token to allow an inbound connection from a leaf cluster:
$ tctl tokens add --type=trusted_cluster --ttl=5m
# Example output:
# The cluster invite token: (=presets.tokens.first=)
# This token will expire in 5 minutes

# Generates a Trusted Cluster token with labels.
# Every cluster joined using this token will inherit env:prod labels.
$ tctl tokens add --type=trusted_cluster --labels=env=prod

# You can also list the outstanding non-expired tokens:
$ tctl tokens ls

# ... or delete/revoke an invitation:
$ tctl tokens rm (=presets.tokens.first=)
```
The token created above can be used multiple times and has
an expiration time of 5 minutes.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Users of Teleport will recognize that this is the same way you would add any
Node to a cluster. 

> Now, the administrator of "leaf" must create the following resource file:

Reviewer 2: of **the** leaf

Author: I think skipping the article is okay here since "leaf" is the name of the cluster, but it does sound a bit odd. I've suggested using "the leaf cluster" instead.

    - remote: admin
      # admin <-> admin works for the Open Source Edition. Enterprise users
      # have great control over RBAC.
      local: [admin]
  token: "join-token-from-root"
  tunnel_addr: root.example.com:3024
  web_proxy_addr: root.example.com:3080
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">
```yaml

> # Save this as root-cluster.yaml on the auth server of "leaf" and then execute:

Reviewer 2: This whole section seems technically correct but when viewing the file in github, is not formatted properly like the section above it.  Instead, what is supposed to look like yaml is jumbled together as a paragraph without line breaks in the proper places.

Author: Does this look okay if you view the docs site locally with these steps?
- Open a clone of `gravitational/next`
- Run `git submodule update --init --recursive`
- Navigate to `content/9.0`
- Check out my branch
- Run `yarn dev`
- Open the page

Reviewer 2: Yes, yes it does.

At a first glance, Trusted Clusters in combination with RBAC may seem
complicated. However, it is based on certificate-based SSH authentication
which is fairly easy to reason about.

One can think of an SSH certificate as a "permit" issued and time-stamped by a
certificate authority. A certificate contains four important pieces of data:

- List of allowed Unix logins a user can use. They are called "principals" in
  the certificate.
- Signature of the certificate authority that issued it (the Teleport Auth Service)
- Metadata (certificate extensions): additional data protected by the signature
  above. Teleport uses the metadata to store the list of user roles and SSH
  options like "permit-agent-forwarding".
- The expiration date.

Try executing `tsh status` right after `tsh login` to see all these fields in the
client certificate.

When a user from the root cluster tries to connect to a node inside "leaf", the user's
certificate is presented to the Auth Service of "leaf" and it performs the
following checks:

- Checks that the certificate signature matches one of the Trusted Clusters.
- Tries to find a local role that maps to the list of principals found in the certificate.

> - Checks if the local role allows the requested identity (Unix login) to have access.

Reviewer: Nit: in the PRs I've reviewed today, we've used all of these interchangeably:

- Unix login
- OS login
- Host login

Should we standardize on a term here?

Author: I'm not sure we need to have a standard for this unless this is a Teleport-specific technical term. We use `logins` in user/role resource definitions, but the docs also sometimes use the term outside of that context. I'll add it to my list of possible topics to include in a style guide.

Troubleshooting access denied messages can be challenging. A Teleport administrator
should check to see the following:

- Which roles a user is assigned on the root cluster when they retrieve their SSH
  certificate via `tsh login`. You can inspect the retrieved certificate with the
  `tsh status` command on the client-side.
- Which roles a user is assigned on the leaf cluster when the role mapping takes
  place. The role mapping result is reflected in the Teleport audit log. By
  default, it is stored in `/var/lib/teleport/log` on the Auth Server of a
  cluster. Check the audit log messages on both clusters to get answers for the
  questions above. 
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">

> Troubleshooting "access denied" messages can be challenging. A Teleport administrator

Reviewer 2: This section is repeated and also appears directly above.  Also, the troubleshooting section as a whole seems mostly relevant to non-cloud installations.

Author: There are two separate `TabItem` components here, one which is automatically selected for readers who have chosen "OpenSource" or "Enterprise" in the dropdown menu at the top of the docs site ("Self-Hosted"), and one for readers who have selected "Cloud". Are the correct instructions in each `TabItem`?

Reviewer 2: Yes, when viewing in yarn dev, it looks fine.
